Sprint 2018-24 summary
############################

:date: 2018-06-18 11:34
:modified: 2018-06-18 11:34
:category: blog
:authors: The Software Factory Team

Below are the tasks we worked on during our last sprint.

Regarding Software Factory:

* We packaged new zuul requirements cherrypy, ws4py and routes.
* We reworked zuul packaging to build webui using a node_modules cache.
* We worked on guide and blog posts:
* * http://www.softwarefactory-project.io/how-to-record-feature-demo.html
* * http://www.softwarefactory-project.io/using-system-packages-instead-of-pip.html
* * http://www.softwarefactory-project.io/feature-remote-config-location-on-github.html
* We had a look at JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for zuul web admin, this may require to discard authpub_tkt to replace it with JWT in the future. This will depend on how upstream wants to proceed.
* We brainstormed and started a blog post series called "Hands-on Zuul" (will be published on SF blog)
* We have integrated latest repoXplorer version in SF
* We finished the changes to allow operators to update fqdn for a SF deployment (code, CI and documentation)
* We added dib images in sf-nodepool tenants for zuul3 migration on sf.io (upstream-centos-7, rdo-fedora-38 and rdo-centos-7).
* We're working on upgrading ARA to 0.15 and implementing the sqlite middleware
* We have finalized the support of the user backend and cauth integration [demo]

Regarding our contributions to Zuul and Nodepool:

* We reviewed and fixed issues with the angular6 patch.
* We rebased zuul-routes and zuul-ui patch on top of cherrypy and angular6.
* We helped the API working group to get started with GraphQL on Neutron (https://review.openstack.org/574543) and conducted an experiment in zuul-web: https://review.openstack.org/#/c/574625/3/zuul/graphql.py
* We succeed to have the prefix gerrit ui support in Zuul https://review.openstack.org/#/c/570006/ merged
* We succeed to have the broken config patch for Zuul merged https://review.openstack.org/#/c/535511/
* We have proposed to patch to add a check tenant file option to Zuul scheduler: https://review.openstack.org/#/c/574265/
