Software Factory 3.1
####################

:date: 2018-08-03
:authors: SF
:status: hidden
:url: releases/3.1/
:save_as: releases/3.1/index.html

Prelude
-------

This new release adds support for tenant deployment and Zuul configuration
management from the resources.

Doc
---

Here_ is the documentation of the 3.1 release.

.. _Here: {filename}/docs/3.1/index.html

Release Notes (2018-08-03)
--------------------------

sf-config-3.1.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

New Features
............

- A new zuul.ara_report option in sfconfig.yaml let operator set the default
  behavior to copy ara report database.
  Set it to \'failure\' to only copy the result when a job fail.
- sfconfig sets and checks for correct hostname before installing services to
  prevent dns issues.
- New tls_cert_file, tls_chain_file and tls_key_file sfconfig.yaml option
  let user set cutom TLS certificates.
- A new cgit components is available to host a fast web frontend for
  gerrit repositories at https://fqdn/cgit.
- A new default-tenant-name setting in sfconfig.yaml let operator change
  the "local" tenant name.
- A new config-location settings enables deployment where the config and jobs
  repository are hosted remotely, for example on an external gerrit or
  github.
- SSL is enabled on zuul gearman service. A gearman-client script is
  installed on the scheduler host to enable direct connection.
- A new app_name setting is added to sfconfig.yaml github_connections list
  to auto-configure the github gate pipeline.
- A new label_name setting is added to sfconfig.yaml github_connections list
  to auto-configure a label requirement to github gate.
- A tenant object is managed in config resources.
  It defines the local default tenant and the configured connections.
- A new log-classify tech-preview post action is available and can
  be de-activated using the logclassify_optin job variable.
  Job report can be injected as a job result using the logclassify_report
  job variable
- A new clouds_file sfconfig.yaml option enable setting user-defined
  os-client-config clouds.yaml file.
- Regular Expression for the pre-release and release pipeline are now
  configurable via sfconfig.yaml, use the setting `prerelease_regexp`
  and `release_regexp`. Default values are step to be Semantic Versioning
  compliant.
- SAML2-enabled Identity Provider can be configured as an authentication
  backend.
- New tenant-deployment settings enables deployment where zuul and nodepool
  are running remotely.
- Canonical hostname can be set in sfconfig.yaml for zuul connections.
- Github App key can be defined as a file path instead of inlined content in
  sfconfig.yaml
- The Zuul MQTT driver is automatically configured when the firehose
  component is enabled. The default topic can be updated with the
  custom-vars, ``zuul_mqtt_start_topic``, ``zuul_mqtt_success_topic``
  and ``zuul_mqtt_failure_topic``.
- Services public keys are now available on https://fqdn/keys.


Known Issues
............

- Gerrit user are no longer deleted through the managesf API. To fully delete
  a gerrit user, a new 'delete-gerrit-user.sh' script is provided.
- The SAML session is discarded immediately after the authentication is
  successful, the session is still handled by auth_pubtkt in cauth.
  This means that terminating a user's session on the Identity Provider will
  not terminate it on Software Factory.
  The administrator should configure Software Factory's cookie timeout to match
  the Identity Provider's own session timeout.


Upgrade Notes
.............

- The ceph repository needs to be manually removed before installing the 3.1
  repository using this command:
  **yum remove -y centos-release-ceph-jewel**
- The ansible version provided by CentOS extras is replaced by the one
  already packaged in scl for Zuul.
- The hypervisor-oci component is renamed hypervisor-runc. Any nodesets
  using the default centos-oci needs to be adapted to use the new runc-centos
  label.
- A _internal.yaml file is created with the default managed
  config/resources. Config project and acls are removed from common files.
- The nodepool-builder service package upgrades may fail when there is a
  dedicated mountpoint for /var/opt/rh/rh-python35/cache/nodepool that contains
  leaked dib mounts.
  Make sure the nodepool cache is un-mounted and update your fstab to use
  /var/cache/nodepool instead.
- Gerrit HTTP password are removed during the upgrade. The Gerrit REST API
  is now available using the Cauth main API-KEY. Users need to re-generate
  an API-KEY (using the /sf/user_settings.html page) and replace the old
  password using the new Key.


Deprecation Notes
.................

- The --zuul-ssh-key, --zuul-upstream-zuul-jobs and --zuul-external-gerrit
  sfconfig command line argument are no longer supported. Use the
  sfconfig.yaml configuration file to configure those options.


Bug Fixes
.........

- Zuul scheduler key are now properly backup
- Install-server restore now keep the desired target arch.yaml
- The default admin password is now automatically set to a random string.


Other Notes
...........

- Gerrit All-projects project.config Software Factory default ACLs additions
  are checked/updated at every sfconfig run.



cauth-0.12.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- API keys are now set to gerrit http password when the service is available.
- A gerrit option 'register_user' has been added to toggle user creation.
- The GitHub OAuth application doesn't request organization read access when
  the allowed_organizations restriction is not set.


managesf-0.18.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

New Features
............

- The resources model got a new connection object to fully describe repository
  location.

- The resources model got a new tenant object. That the root model object for the Tenant capablity of Software Factory.


Upgrade Notes
.............

- HTTP password controller is removed, this is now managed by Cauth API-KEY.


Other Notes
...........

- MySQL connector changed to PyMySQL https://github.com/PyMySQL/PyMySQL/


New Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ara-0.15.0-1.el7
- bubblewrap-0.2.1-1.el7
- cauth-0.12.1-8.el7
- cgit-1.1-8.el7
- gerrit-2.14.7-1.el7
- gerritbot-0.4.0-1.el7
- lecm-0.0.7-3.el7
- lodgeit-0.2-1.el7
- managesf-0.18.1-6.el7
- python-log2gearman-0.1-3.20171211gitc646602.el7
- python-pkginfo-1.4.2-1.el7
- python-requests-toolbelt-0.8.0-1.el7
- python-sfmanager-0.5.0-4.el7
- python-testinfra-1.14.1-1.el7
- python-tqdm-4.19.6-1.el7
- python-twine-1.11.0-1.el7
- repoxplorer-1.3.1-1.20180726.a05b6af.el7
- rh-python35-Cython-0.28.3-1.el7
- rh-python35-GitPython-2.1.10-1.el7
- rh-python35-ansible-2.5.5-1.el7
- rh-python35-ara-0.15.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-diskimage-builder-2.15.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-dlrn-0.8.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-dlrnapi-client-0.5.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-logreduce-0.1.3-1.el7
- rh-python35-nodepool-3.2.0-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-APScheduler-3.5.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-CacheControl-0.12.4-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-SecretStorage-3.0.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-bottle-0.12.13-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-cachetools-2.0.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-cherrypy-8.9.1-3.el7
- rh-python35-python-dictdiffer-0.7.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-fasteners-0.14.1-10.el7
- rh-python35-python-future-0.16.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-gear-0.12.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-gevent-1.2.2-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-gflags-2.0-10.el7
- rh-python35-python-gitdb-2.0.3-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-google-auth-1.4.2-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-greenlet-0.4.13-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-httplib2-0.10.3-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-jeepney-0.3-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-jwt-1.6.4-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-keyring-11.0.0-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-keystoneauth1-3.8.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-kubernetes-6.0.0-3.el7
- rh-python35-python-oauth2client-4.1.2-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-oauthlib-2.0.1-4.el7
- rh-python35-python-openshift-0.6.0-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-openstacksdk-0.16.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-os-service-types-1.2.0-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-psutil-5.4.5-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-pyasn1-0.4.3-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-pycparser-2.18-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-pycurl-7.43.0-14.el7
- rh-python35-python-repoze-lru-0.4-17.el7
- rh-python35-python-requests-oauthlib-0.8.0-3.el7
- rh-python35-python-routes-2.4.1-4.el7
- rh-python35-python-rsa-3.4.2-4.el7
- rh-python35-python-ruamel-yaml-0.13.14-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-shade-1.28.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-string-utils-0.6.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-tornado-4.5.2-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-uvloop-0.9.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-webob-1.8.2-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-websocket-client-0.47.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-ws4py-0.5.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-rdopkg-0.46.3-2.el7
- rh-python35-zuul-3.2.0-3.el7
- rh-python35-zuul-jobs-0.1-0.12.20180731git5e5ecdb.el7
- sf-config-3.1.1-4.el7
- sf-docs-3.1.0-1.el7
- sf-elements-0.6.0-2.el7
- sf-release-3.1.2-3.el7
- sf-web-assets-1.0-5.el7


Digest
------

The packages are signed with this key:
E46E04A2344803E5A808BDD7E8C203A71C3BAE4B - release@softwarefactory-project.io

.. raw:: html

  <pre>
  -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
  Hash: SHA1

  8deb28380c6dc537077650023a0a576b809099d784fa92211ef206d1d5c6238a  sf-release-3.1.2-3.el7.noarch.rpm
  -----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
  Version: GnuPG v2.0.22 (GNU/Linux)

  iQIcBAEBAgAGBQJbYuSPAAoJEOjCA6ccO65LTD4P/iXOxFGTj8SUgKjYo6/gnWY7
  8Nlbw0kqhDUTg4ufFwzQ3AFA+1E5DFkEolkXVgXksIlukK+c6ilwWGrbVcc82OQo
  WKuSEDzPmOGX8b9Mb1kZv9L8B13fmH9DT8aAyIZzZvEDRrPheKnk0tp6gTFqmTx6
  vBRXh7jrAU5UbypxJ/7bxZGza+AKTDaujwtngibBc/0V+iWpbhZtQDkDJ6Up1yCv
  Ydqd6qPzUgLTiqJIQTCIZbdSDDslIetc17RgAtT0x203pj1xpCVyI//l7o3b5OUf
  PRx03tqEOR7sB5975fz5zyEl7RkR7uuSpHQQDq08A2BnDdmIJ/eOP8+NwivuigHT
  p3uwDGcQN5Jw0ItIhDUDlurbhokm53/2FWLi5mA2VM1LmCY9RhoNGAq1jT6CmjJJ
  GCQiYWaTEs/gpMwhlF2Iu41xYXr9/UYABq+4UnbVoopDg89n3CctSrHipjIkziVw
  SRTDqw+S5m53eADLOFmFezaPJLRaOixUsQ1MNvsIU2Jh/HWwYy4M0wtaFxFFyZTT
  zY/sbq6aBIZHraS5idyes+fYxlm590PhjuVZphETeHWe2gLlyXPixhw8e33+Ztvl
  IWJ8R9li7527c7VSRsQI2DRvlFffNX8SXqfZpWS7mxEm4e152HtR4cWUu1outkiX
  27++v8At5aPoz+Edfe7D
  =dhQf
  -----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
  </pre>
