Software Factory 3.2
####################

:date: 2018-12-03
:authors: SF
:status: hidden
:url: releases/3.2/
:save_as: releases/3.2/index.html

Prelude
-------

This new release consolidates the 3.1 version with updated packages,
minor fixes and some new features such as an improved update mechanism.

Doc
---

Here_ is the documentation of the 3.2 release.

.. _Here: {filename}/docs/3.2/index.html


Release Notes (2019-09-09)
--------------------------

The repository has been updated to include a fix for the grafana installation.

Updated Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- sf-config-3.2.6-1.el7


Release Notes (2019-04-17)
--------------------------

The repository has been updated to include a new Zuul version 3.6.1-3
package that includes a security fix. Patch your deployment by running:
"sfconfig --update" on the install-server.

Updated Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- rh-python35-zuul-3.6.1-3.el7


Release Notes (2019-03-12)
--------------------------

The repository has been updated to include the latest Zuul version 3.6.1
to fix a security issue. Patch your deployment by running
"yum update -y sf-config && sfconfig --update" on the install-server.

Updated Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- rh-python35-ansible-2.5.15-1.el7
- rh-python35-nodepool-3.5.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-gear-0.13.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-github3-1.3.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-openstacksdk-0.24.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-pyopenssl-18.0.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-zuul-3.6.1-1.el7
- sf-config-3.2.5-1.el7


New Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- rh-python35-python-boto3-1.9.93-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-botocore-1.12.93-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-s3transfer-0.2.0-1.el7


sf-config-3.2.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Bug Fixes
.........

- Fixed a typo in the purge-logs.sh script template
- Properly set DocumentRoot for logserver httpd configuration when
  logserver is running on a dedicated instance.
- Do not requires cgit when all the repositories are remote.
- Properly install let's encrypt certificates before configuring the gateway.
- Add missing RewriteRule for acme certificates of hosted pages.
- Prevent un-necessary restart of gerrit and cauth when running sfconfig.

Upgrade Notes
.............

- A new python-path options is available for nodepool labels. This was previously
  set to python3 for kubectl labels, users of such labels needs to explicitely
  set this option to preserve this behavior.


Release Notes (2019-01-24)
--------------------------

The repository has been updated to include the latest Zuul version 3.5.0
to fix a security issue. Patch your deployment by running
"sfconfig --update" on the install-server.

Updated Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- rh-python35-ansible-2.5.14-1.el7
- rh-python35-nodepool-3.4.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-sqlalchemy-1.2.12-1.el7
- rh-python35-zuul-3.5.0-1.el7
- sf-config-3.2.4-1.el7
- managesf-0.19.2-6.el7


Release Notes (2018-12-06)
--------------------------

sf-config-3.2.3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Bug Fixes
.........

- Nodepool Openstack driver quota calculation was incorrect in previous
  version
- Tenant deployment config wasn't using the managesf v2 api, resulting
  in error with the config-check job.

Updated Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- managesf-0.19.1-6.el7
- rh-python35-nodepool-3.3.1-4.el7
- sf-config-3.2.3-1.el7


Release Notes (2018-12-05)
--------------------------

sf-config-3.2.2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Bug Fixes
.........

- Improve Zuul and Nodepool service restart when package are updated.
- Fixes issues with the Nodepool-3.3.1 version.

Upgrade Notes
.............

- The Gerrit top menu only works when the "Show Site Header / Footer"
  user preference is set (which is the default). User who are missing
  the top menu navigation need to set the option back.


Updated Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- sf-config-3.2.2-1.el7
- rh-python35-nodepool-3.3.1-3.el7


Release Notes (2018-12-03)
--------------------------

sf-config-3.2.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

New Features
............

- A new kube_file sfconfig.yaml option enable setting user-defined
  .kube/config file.

- A new Zuul pipeline named 'experimental' is added by default in the default
  Zuul tenant. The pipeline is available for Gerrit and Github connections.
  Jobs attached to that pipeline are trigger by the 'check experimenal' comment.

- The --upgrade or --update command line argument does not stop the services
  when not needed. It is now recommended to run sfconfig --update periodically
  to automatically restart the service when needed.

- A new nodepool_restart.yaml playbook is installed in sf lib to simplify
  nodepool services restart after an upgrade.

- A new zuul_restart.yaml playbook is installed in sf lib to simplify
  zuul services restart after an upgrade.

- A new disable_zuul_autorestart extra-vars option enables operator to
  disable zuul services auto-restart on update to manually control when
  to perform service restart.

- A new disable_nodepool_autorestart extra-vars option enables operator to
  disable nodepool services auto-restart on update to manually control when
  to perform service restart.

- Add a "differentiate-users" option to sfconfig.yaml, allowing an operator to
  specify the strategy for handling usernames collisions when more than one
  identity provider is specified.
  The default behavior is to reject any user whose username was already
  registered to a different IdP. Activating the option will differentiate
  usernames with a hash, allowing users to log in as distinct entities.
  Note that it is not advisable to use more than one external IdP.

- The upload-pages role now setups TLS virtualhost and forces redirection to
  the https endpoint if a certificate is provided or letsencrypt is configured.

- The --disable-fqdn-redirection sfconfig argument has been renamed
  --disable-ssl-redirection.

- Zuul project's configuration adds check and gate pipeline to every project
  to enable initial config error reporting.

- Zuul and Nodepool services' logs are now managed by logrotate.


Bug Fixes
.........

- When logged-out from cauth but still logged in gerrit, the rewrite rule
  now correctly keeps the referer and does not redirect to the welcome page.

- When reviewing long file in gerrit, the scroll bar now correctly goes to
  the bottom of the file.

- The let's encrypt certificate renew cron did not have the right PATH to
  execute acme-tiny and it is now working as expected.

- The welcome page now display correct links for project hosted on an
  external gerrit or github.


Updated Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ara-0.16.1-1.el7
- bubblewrap-0.3.0-1.el7
- cauth-0.14.0-1.el7
- managesf-0.19.0-6.el7
- python-log2gearman-0.1-4.20171211gitc646602.el7
- python-storyboardclient-0.2.0-1.el7
- repoxplorer-1.4.0-1.20181125.286e8c7.el7
- rh-python35-GitPython-2.1.11-1.el7
- rh-python35-ansible-2.5.11-1.el7
- rh-python35-ara-0.16.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-diskimage-builder-2.18.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-logreduce-0.4.0-2.el7
- rh-python35-nodepool-3.3.1-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-APScheduler-3.5.3-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-CacheControl-0.12.5-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-asn1crypto-0.24.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-bcrypt-3.1.4-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-certifi-2018.10.15-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-cffi-1.11.5-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-cherrypy-18.0.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-cryptography-2.4.2-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-decorator-4.3.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-dogpile-cache-0.6.7-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-gitdb-2.0.5-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-github3-1.2.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-idna-2.7-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-kazoo-2.6.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-keystoneauth1-3.11.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-msgpack-0.5.6-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-munch-2.3.2-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-networkx-2.2-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-openshift-0.6.0-3.el7
- rh-python35-python-openstacksdk-0.19.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-os-service-types-1.3.0-2.el7
- rh-python35-python-paho-mqtt-1.4.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-paramiko-2.4.2-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-psutil-5.4.8-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-pyasn1-0.4.4-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-pynacl-1.3.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-repoze-lru-0.7-17.el7
- rh-python35-python-requests-2.20.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-requestsexceptions-1.4.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-smmap-2.0.5-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-statsd-3.3.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-stevedore-1.30.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-urllib3-1.24.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-webob-1.8.4-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-zuul-sphinx-0.3.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-zuul-jobs-0.1-0.14.20181120git89e3864.el7
- rh-python35-zuul-3.3.1-1.el7
- sf-config-3.2.1-1.el7
- sf-docs-3.2.0-1.el7
- sf-elements-0.6.1-2.el7
- sf-release-3.2.0-1.el7
- sf-web-assets-1.0-6.el7
- storyboard-0.0.1-12.20181107git5ecfa05.el7
- storyboard-webclient-0.0.2-1.20181123.cfb8f9e.el7


New Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- rh-python35-python-cheroot-6.5.2-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-jaraco-functools-1.20-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-jwcrypto-0.6.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-more-itertools-4.3.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-portend-2.3-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-pure-sasl-0.5.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-setuptools-40.6.2-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-six-1.11.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-tempora-1.14-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-zc-lockfile-1.4-1.el7


Removed Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- buck-2016.11.11.01-1.el7
- pysflib-0.9.1-2.el7
- python-pygerrit-1.0.0-1.el7
- python-redmine-1.5.1-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-glanceclient-2.8.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-keystoneclient-3.13.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-openstackclient-3.12.0-1.el7
- rh-python35-python-shade-1.28.0-1.el7


Digest
------

The packages are signed with this key:
E46E04A2344803E5A808BDD7E8C203A71C3BAE4B - release@softwarefactory-project.io

.. raw:: html

  <pre>
  -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
  Hash: SHA1

  130d1265341155f344c44eecd668b84d4cc3afac29201dfb8cb755e2d063eb7a  sf-release-3.2.0-1.el7.noarch.rpm
  -----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
  Version: GnuPG v2.0.22 (GNU/Linux)

  iQIcBAEBAgAGBQJb/RpBAAoJEOjCA6ccO65L52cQAKtYw1rxNXZldJ+Z1P0oaOZK
  iwj6BDA4w8QdN6qJTFCpbIDlBV5mnwy8yiSvsnb1GqZPku959jACuWg5GW8glnuR
  FHDPXdO9anyjdUwkQapcK5XkRhQWxb+JrV5t+C43PiWreBa/TZNt5mjPIAQlDouy
  mRABqrL1ima61xnOgNlMOKcaZb0Tmhg6mmRiokoTMzv5Joka4BxiYB+2LBf+KfdW
  e947C9pEAEsllf3y0pMHXc2gXHrh2NCZSv+n1VNQ8OVPflo53puDoxVBG3bmS2Ei
  1K5hEdQgqjc1YyDDW5VWvhCyfXofLNYD+FEE3b4OuWAuKjN3hRxJ6CaTTZ2D3PQ2
  SVAH4VfdHtyX5yjQWXeUydr8gi3zvYwJsPajrzlxolo0H/+BUkcedbXL7mmGuOVl
  q8XEUMozpa3E0O86qDANGUkrcwIh0pDv6KupWwIkfk6k9VGbpUCuZ8sPoBmG5zsX
  pkzSotrsYFKPdd1+fR5NwRA1r+xFoI0OZoCtPA/AsA/98kQCf9cjCi1OLZznvpPp
  2YkNBPrGPz3yHl8HUcZa/1DHgvF6gP7fS/TWtYmLTTVaPpO1MVe5PVvBWT/4tCWs
  V4Vl2zNzZXVo6YHHs9fCVKKLfM0jooqy32iVN0Sj0RzHsUHMHEprZ7mMsyjhgwWt
  5RVum2B/Er0bdQJi1Q4q
  =OGDg
  -----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
  </pre>
